.TH UNIVERSAL-INSTALL 1 "2024" "Universal Installer" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
universal-install \- Cross-platform package installer setup script

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install.sh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPACKAGE_GROUPS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B universal-install
is a cross-platform script that sets up the Universal Installer on your system.
It automatically detects your platform and package manager, then downloads and
installs the Universal Installer tools. It can also install packages from
TOML configuration files, allowing for easy setup of development environments
across different platforms.

The script supports multiple operating systems and their native package managers,
ensuring optimal compatibility and performance on each platform.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message and exit.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Show what would be done without actually performing the installation.
Useful for previewing the installation process.

.TP
.B \-\-skip-checksum
Skip checksum verification of downloaded files (not recommended).
The script automatically detects available checksum tools (shasum, sha256sum, or openssl).
Use only if you're experiencing network issues with checksum verification.

.TP
.B \-\-install-completions
Install shell completion scripts for the installer.
Supports bash, zsh, and fish shells.

.TP
.B \-\-install-manpage
Install manpage for the installer.

.TP
.B \-\-install-package-manpages
Install man pages for packages in groups. Attempts to install documentation
packages (like -doc packages) for packages in the specified groups.

.TP
.B \-\-config \fIFILE\fR
Use custom TOML configuration file (default: packages.toml).

.TP
.B \-\-list-groups
List available package groups from the TOML configuration.

.TP
.B \-\-install-group \fIGROUP\fR
Install packages from specified group. Multiple groups can be specified
as comma-separated values (e.g., "development,languages").
Provides detailed documentation accessible via the man command.

.SH SUPPORTED PLATFORMS
.TP
.B macOS
Uses Homebrew package manager. If Homebrew is not installed, it will be
automatically installed.

.TP
.B Linux
Supports multiple distributions with their native package managers:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Debian-based: apt (Ubuntu, Debian, Linux Mint, Pop!_OS, Elementary OS, Kali Linux, Parrot OS, MX Linux, Devuan, Deepin, Zorin OS)
.IP \(bu 2
Red Hat-based: dnf/yum (Fedora, RHEL, CentOS, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, Oracle Linux, Amazon Linux, Scientific Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
Arch-based: pacman (Arch Linux, Manjaro, EndeavourOS, Garuda Linux, ArcoLinux, Artix Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
SUSE-based: zypper (openSUSE, SUSE Linux Enterprise, Tumbleweed, Leap)
.IP \(bu 2
Alpine: apk (Alpine Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
Gentoo: emerge (Gentoo, Funtoo, Calculate Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
Void: xbps (Void Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
NixOS: nix (NixOS)
.IP \(bu 2
Slackware: slackpkg (Slackware, Slax, Salix)
.IP \(bu 2
Solus: eopkg (Solus)
.IP \(bu 2
Clear Linux: swupd (Intel Clear Linux)
.IP \(bu 2
PCLinuxOS: apt-get (PCLinuxOS)
.IP \(bu 2
Mageia: urpmi (Mageia)
.IP \(bu 2
OpenMandriva: dnf (OpenMandriva)
.RE

.TP
.B FreeBSD
Uses pkg package manager (native FreeBSD package manager).

.TP
.B NetBSD
Uses pkgin package manager (native NetBSD package manager).

.TP
.B Windows
Uses winget (native Windows package manager) or falls back to Chocolatey.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Normal installation:
.B install.sh

.TP
Dry run to see what would be installed:
.B install.sh --dry-run

.TP
Install with completions and manpage:
.B install.sh --install-completions --install-manpage

.TP
Install packages with man pages:
.B install.sh --install-group development --install-package-manpages

.TP
List available package groups:
.B install.sh --list-groups

.TP
Install development tools:
.B install.sh --install-group development

.TP
Install multiple groups:
.B install.sh --install-group development,python,nodejs

.TP
Use custom configuration:
.B install.sh --config custom.toml --install-group minimal

.TP
Install with completions only:
.B install.sh --install-completions

.TP
Show help:
.B install.sh --help

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.local/bin/universal-install
Main installer binary
.TP
.B ~/.local/bin/universal-uninstall
Uninstaller binary
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/bash-completion/completions/universal-install
Bash completion script
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/zsh/site-functions/_universal-install
Zsh completion script
.TP
.B ~/.config/fish/completions/universal-install.fish
Fish completion script
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/man/man1/universal-install.1
Manpage

.TP
.B packages.toml
Default TOML configuration file for package groups

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHELL
Used to determine which shell completions to install.
The script automatically detects bash, zsh, and fish shells.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (invalid options, missing dependencies, network issues, etc.)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The script provides detailed output about:
.IP \(bu 2
Platform detection results
.IP \(bu 2
Package manager identification
.IP \(bu 2
Download progress and verification
.IP \(bu 2
Installation status
.IP \(bu 2
Completion and manpage installation status

.SH SECURITY
The script downloads files from GitHub releases and verifies their integrity
using SHA256 checksums. The --skip-checksum option should only be used in
emergency situations where checksum verification is failing due to network issues.

.SH AUTHOR
Universal Installer Team

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/gregnazario/universal-installer/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2024 Universal Installer Team. This is free software.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR universal-install (1),
.BR universal-uninstall (1) 